.TH TINYTRACK 8 "2026-04-01" "TinyTrack 0.1.4" "TinyTrack Manual"
.SH NAME
tinytrack \- HTTP/WebSocket gateway for TinyTrack metrics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tinytrack
[\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-daemon\fR|\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-no\-daemon\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-\-config\fR \fIconfig-file\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-port\fR \fIport\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIws://host:port\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-\-shm\fR \fIshm-path\fR]
.br
.B tinytrack
\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tinytrack
is the HTTP/WebSocket gateway for the TinyTrack monitoring system.
It reads metrics from the shared memory ring buffer written by
.BR tinytd (8)
and pushes them to connected WebSocket clients using a compact binary
protocol (v1/v2).
.PP
Clients can subscribe to live metric streams, request historical data
from any ring level (L1/L2/L3), and send control commands.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-daemon
Run as a background daemon (double-fork). This is the default behaviour.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-no\-daemon
Run in the foreground. Useful for debugging, containers, and systemd
services with \fBType=simple\fR.
.TP
.BI \-c " config-file" ", " \-\-config " config-file"
Path to the configuration file.
Default: \fI/etc/tinytrack/tinytrack.conf\fR.
.TP
.BI \-p " port" ", " \-\-port " port"
Listen port. Shorthand for \fB\-\-listen ws://0.0.0.0:\fIport\fR.
.TP
.BI \-l " ws://host:port" ", " \-\-listen " ws://host:port"
Full listen address. Overrides \fBgateway.listen\fR in the config file.
.TP
.BI \-s " shm-path" ", " \-\-shm " shm-path"
Path to the tinytd live mmap file. Overrides \fBstorage.live_path\fR
in the config file.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM
Graceful shutdown: close all connections and exit.
.TP
.B SIGINT
Same as SIGTERM.
.SH PROTOCOL
The gateway speaks a binary framing protocol over WebSocket.
Every frame starts with a 10-byte header (magic, version, type, length,
timestamp, checksum) followed by a type-specific payload.
.PP
.B Protocol v1 packet types:
.TP
.B PKT_METRICS (0x01)
Live metrics snapshot pushed to clients at the configured interval.
.TP
.B PKT_CONFIG (0x02)
Daemon configuration sent once on connect and on config change.
.TP
.B PKT_ALERT (0x03)
Threshold alert notification.
.TP
.B PKT_CMD (0x04)
Command from client: set interval, toggle alerts, or request a snapshot.
.TP
.B PKT_ACK (0x05)
Server acknowledgement for a received command.
.PP
.B Protocol v2 additions:
.TP
.B PKT_HISTORY_REQ (0x10)
Client requests historical samples from a ring level (L1/L2/L3)
with an optional time range and sample count limit.
.TP
.B PKT_HISTORY_RESP (0x11)
Server response carrying a batch of up to 60 samples.
The last frame in a batch has the \fBHISTORY_FLAG_LAST\fR flag set.
.TP
.B PKT_SUBSCRIBE (0x12)
Client subscribes to a specific ring level at a given push interval.
.TP
.B PKT_STATS (0x13)
Ring buffer statistics (capacity, fill level, timestamps) for all three levels.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/tinytrack/tinytrack.conf
Default configuration file.
.TP
.I /dev/shm/tinytd-live.dat
Live shared memory ring buffer written by \fBtinytd\fR (read-only for tinytrack).
.TP
.I /var/run/tinytrack.pid
PID file written on startup, removed on clean shutdown.
.SH SETUP
Before running \fBtinytrack\fR for the first time, create a dedicated system
user and group:
.PP
.nf
sudo groupadd --system tinytrack
sudo useradd --system --no-create-home \\
    --shell /usr/sbin/nologin --gid tinytrack tinytrack
.fi
.PP
The gateway drops privileges to the user and group specified in the
\fB[gateway]\fR section of the configuration file after opening the
shared memory file.
.PP
\fBtinytrack\fR requires \fBtinytd\fR to be running and the shared memory
file to exist before it can start.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tinytd (8),
.BR tiny\-cli (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to <bugs@example.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 TinyTrack Project. MIT License.
