.TH TINY\-CLI 1 "2026-04-01" "TinyTrack 0.1.4" "TinyTrack Manual"
.SH NAME
tiny\-cli \- command-line interface for the TinyTrack monitoring daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiny\-cli
[\fIoptions\fR]
.I command
[\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tiny\-cli
is the administrative CLI for TinyTrack.
It reads metrics from the shared memory ring buffer written by
.BR tinytd (8)
and provides live monitoring, history browsing, daemon control,
log viewing, and an interactive ncurses dashboard.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p " PATH" ", " \-\-path " PATH"
Path to the live mmap file.
Default: value of \fBstorage.live_path\fR from the config file,
or \fB$TINYTRACK_LIVE_PATH\fR if set.
.TP
.BI \-c " PATH" ", " \-\-config " PATH"
Path to the daemon configuration file.
Default: \fI/etc/tinytrack/tinytrack.conf\fR.
.TP
.BI \-P " PATH" ", " \-\-pid " PATH"
Path to the daemon PID file.
.TP
.BI \-f " FORMAT" ", " \-\-format " FORMAT"
Output format: \fBtable\fR (default), \fBjson\fR, or \fBcompact\fR.
.TP
.BI \-i " MS" ", " \-\-interval " MS"
Refresh interval in milliseconds for live views. Default: 1000.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-no\-color
Disable ANSI color output. Automatically disabled when stdout is not a tty.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage summary and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS status
Show daemon status, PID, mmap path, and ring buffer fill levels for L1/L2/L3.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli status
.RE
.SS metrics
Show live metrics, refreshing every \fB\-\-interval\fR ms.
Exits when the daemon stops or stdout is not a tty (single snapshot).
.B live
is an alias for this command.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli metrics
.br
.B tiny\-cli live
.br
.B tiny\-cli \-\-format json metrics
.RE
.SS history
Show historical samples from a ring buffer level.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli history [\fIl1\fR|\fIl2\fR|\fIl3\fR] [\-\-count \fIN\fR]
.RE
.TP
.I l1
1-hour ring at 1-second resolution (default).
.TP
.I l2
24-hour ring at 1-minute resolution.
.TP
.I l3
7-day ring at 1-hour resolution.
.TP
.BI \-\-count " N"
Number of samples to show. Default: 20.
.SS logs
Show daemon logs via journalctl integration.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli logs [\-\-lines \fIN\fR] [\-\-level \fILEVEL\fR] [\-\-service \fISERVICE\fR]
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-lines " N"
Number of log lines to show. Default: 50.
.TP
.BI \-\-level " LEVEL"
Minimum log level to display: \fBdebug\fR, \fBinfo\fR, \fBnotice\fR,
\fBwarning\fR, \fBerror\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-service " SERVICE"
Filter logs by service: \fBtinytd\fR or \fBtinytrack\fR.
Without this flag, logs from both services are shown.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli logs
.br
.B tiny\-cli logs \-\-lines 100 \-\-service tinytd
.br
.B tiny\-cli logs \-\-level warning \-\-service tinytrack
.RE
.SS signal
Send a signal to the running daemon.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli signal \fIsigname\fR
.RE
.TP
.I hup
Reload configuration (SIGHUP).
.TP
.I usr1
Rotate logs (SIGUSR1).
.TP
.I usr2
Dump internal state (SIGUSR2).
.TP
.I term
Graceful shutdown (SIGTERM).
.SS service
Manage the tinytd system service.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli service \fIaction\fR
.RE
.PP
Actions: \fBstart\fR, \fBstop\fR, \fBrestart\fR, \fBstatus\fR,
\fBenable\fR, \fBdisable\fR.
Uses \fBsystemctl\fR when available, falls back to direct process management.
.SS debug
Run diagnostics: check mmap integrity, magic number, config file presence,
and daemon state.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli debug
.RE
.SS dashboard
Open the interactive ncurses dashboard.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli dashboard
.br
.B tiny\-cli \-\-interval 500 dashboard
.RE
.PP
.B Keys:
.TP
.B q / ESC
Quit.
.TP
.B Tab
Cycle between modes: live metrics (mode 0) and ring buffer TSDB view (mode 1).
.TP
.B \(ua / \(da
Scroll log buffer (mode 1).
.TP
.B f
Filter logs by service (mode 1).
.TP
.B r
Force refresh.
.TP
.B ?
Toggle help overlay.
.SS script
Execute a script file containing tiny\-cli commands, one per line.
Use \fB\-\fR to read from stdin.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli script \fIFILE\fR
.br
.B tiny\-cli script \-
.RE
.SS version
Print version information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TINYTRACK_LIVE_PATH
Override the default mmap file path.
.TP
.B TINYTRACK_CONF
Override the default configuration file path.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/tinytrack/tinytrack.conf
Default configuration file.
.TP
.I /dev/shm/tinytd-live.dat
Default live shared memory ring buffer (path from \fBstorage.live_path\fR).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error or daemon not running (for \fBstatus\fR).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tinytd (8),
.BR tinytrack (8)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to <bugs@example.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 TinyTrack Project. MIT License.
