.TH TINY\-CLI 1 "2026-03-15" "TinyTrack 0.1.0" "TinyTrack Manual"
.SH NAME
tiny\-cli \- command-line interface for the TinyTrack monitoring daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiny\-cli
[\fIoptions\fR]
.I command
[\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tiny\-cli
is the administrative CLI for TinyTrack.
It reads metrics from the shared memory ring buffer written by
.BR tinytd (8)
and provides live monitoring, history browsing, daemon control,
and an interactive ncurses dashboard.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-path " PATH"
Path to the live mmap file.
Default: \fI/dev/shm/tinytd-live.dat\fR or \fB$TINYTRACK_LIVE_PATH\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-config " PATH"
Path to the daemon configuration file.
Default: \fI/etc/tinytrack/tinytrack.conf\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-pid " PATH"
Path to the daemon PID file.
Default: \fI/tmp/tinytd.pid\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-format " FORMAT"
Output format: \fBtable\fR (default), \fBjson\fR, or \fBcompact\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-interval " MS"
Refresh interval in milliseconds for live views. Default: 1000.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable ANSI color output. Automatically disabled when stdout is not a tty.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Enable verbose logging.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show usage summary.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS status
Show daemon status, PID, mmap path, and ring buffer fill levels for L1/L2/L3.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli status
.RE
.SS metrics
Show live metrics, refreshing every \fB\-\-interval\fR ms.
Exits when the daemon stops or stdout is not a tty (single snapshot).
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli metrics
.br
.B tiny\-cli \-\-format json metrics
.RE
.SS history
Show historical samples from a ring buffer level.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli history [\fIl1\fR|\fIl2\fR|\fIl3\fR] [\-\-count \fIN\fR]
.RE
.TP
.I l1
1-hour ring at 1-second resolution (default).
.TP
.I l2
24-hour ring at 1-minute resolution.
.TP
.I l3
7-day ring at 15-minute resolution.
.TP
.BI \-\-count " N"
Number of samples to show. Default: 20.
.SS signal
Send a signal to the running daemon.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli signal \fIsigname\fR
.RE
.TP
.I hup
Reload configuration (SIGHUP).
.TP
.I usr1
Rotate logs (SIGUSR1).
.TP
.I usr2
Dump internal state (SIGUSR2).
.TP
.I term
Graceful shutdown (SIGTERM).
.SS service
Manage the tinytd system service.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli service \fIaction\fR
.RE
.PP
Actions: \fBstart\fR, \fBstop\fR, \fBrestart\fR, \fBstatus\fR,
\fBenable\fR, \fBdisable\fR.
Uses \fBsystemctl\fR when available, falls back to direct process management.
.SS debug
Run diagnostics: check mmap integrity, magic number, config file presence,
and daemon state.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli debug
.RE
.SS dashboard
Open the interactive ncurses dashboard.
.PP
.RS
.B tiny\-cli dashboard
.br
.B tiny\-cli \-\-interval 500 dashboard
.RE
.PP
.B Keys:
.TP
.B q / ESC
Quit.
.TP
.B Tab
Cycle between modes: live metrics (0) and ring buffer TSDB view (1).
.TP
.B ?
Toggle help overlay.
.SS version
Print version information.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TINYTRACK_LIVE_PATH
Override the default mmap file path.
.TP
.B TINYTRACK_SHADOW_PATH
Override the default shadow mmap file path.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /dev/shm/tinytd-live.dat
Default live shared memory ring buffer.
.TP
.I /etc/tinytrack/tinytrack.conf
Daemon configuration file.
.TP
.I /tmp/tinytd.pid
Daemon PID file (default).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error or daemon not running (for \fBstatus\fR).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tinytd (8),
.BR tinytrack (8)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to <bugs@example.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 TinyTrack Project. MIT License.
