.TH TINYTD 8 "2026-03-15" "TinyTrack 0.1.0" "TinyTrack Manual"
.SH NAME
tinytd \- lightweight system metrics collection daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tinytd
[\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR \fIconfig-file\fR]
.br
.B tinytd
\fB\-h\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tinytd
is a minimal system monitoring daemon designed for resource-constrained
environments. It collects CPU, memory, network, disk, and load average
metrics from \fI/proc\fR and writes them into a three-tier ring buffer
stored in a shared memory file.
.PP
Consumers such as
.BR tiny\-cli (1)
and
.BR tinytrack (8)
read the ring buffer directly via mmap with zero-copy access.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Run as a background daemon (double-fork). Without this flag the process
runs in the foreground, which is useful for debugging.
.TP
.BI \-c " config-file"
Path to the configuration file.
Default: \fI/etc/tinytrack/tinytrack.conf\fR.
.TP
.B \-h
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM
Graceful shutdown: flush buffers and exit.
.TP
.B SIGINT
Same as SIGTERM.
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Ignored (reserved for future configuration reload).
.SH RING BUFFER
The daemon maintains three ring levels in a single mmap file:
.TP
.B L1
High-resolution ring. Default: 3600 samples at 1-second intervals (1 hour).
.TP
.B L2
Medium-resolution ring. Default: 1440 samples at 1-minute intervals (24 hours).
Populated by aggregating L1 samples.
.TP
.B L3
Low-resolution ring. Default: 168 samples at 1-hour intervals (7 days).
Populated by aggregating L2 samples.
.PP
A shadow copy of the ring buffer is maintained for crash recovery.
On restart, \fBtinytd\fR restores data from the shadow file if valid
and \fBauto_recover\fR is enabled in the configuration.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/tinytrack/tinytrack.conf
Default configuration file.
.TP
.I /dev/shm/tinytd-live.dat
Live shared memory ring buffer (mmap).
.TP
.I /var/lib/tinytrack/tinytd-shadow.dat
Shadow copy for crash recovery. Must be writable by the \fBtinytd\fR user.
.TP
.I /var/run/tinytd.pid
PID file written on startup, removed on clean shutdown.
.SH SETUP
Before running \fBtinytd\fR for the first time, create a dedicated system
user and group, then set up the data directory:
.PP
.nf
sudo groupadd --system tinytd
sudo useradd --system --no-create-home \\
    --shell /usr/sbin/nologin --gid tinytd tinytd
sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/tinytrack
sudo chown tinytd:tinytd /var/lib/tinytrack
sudo chmod 750 /var/lib/tinytrack
.fi
.PP
The daemon drops privileges to the user and group specified in the
\fB[daemon]\fR section of the configuration file after initializing
shared memory files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tiny\-cli (1),
.BR tinytrack (8)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to <bugs@example.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 TinyTrack Project. MIT License.
